# bash questions

---

## all

### zsh or bash?

bash?
We can set in the zshrc

	exec bash

### How to check the behavior of bash?

We need a test script with all test cases.
### How to test, how to compare the behavior of bash and minishell?

We can write in the test script, which will test with both and compare the result with `diff`.

---

## tokenizer

### What is token?

A token is a parts of the input.

ex)

	ls -l | wc -l

In this case tokens will be:

	["ls", "-l", "|" "wc" "-l"]

ex2)

	echo "hello world"

closed quotes means one taken:

	["echo", "hello world"]

---

## parser

### what does parser?

`parser` will search the list of `token` and categorize to the data structure for the `excutor`.

### How should be the data structure?

Parser should prepare all data to use, excutor doesn't modify the data.

### Which parts should parser detect?

- commands
- command arguments
- redirections(`<` `>` `<<` `>>`) and pipes
- heredoc
- quotations (`''` `""` )
- environmental variables (`$`)

### What is the difference between single and double quote?

### Which parts does parser need?

- creating the data stracture
- separate the input and categorize
- heredoc
- wildcard
- catching envp
- searching command path

### How to detect the each token?


---

## excuter

### Which informations does excve() need?

- path of the command program (**full path**. We will search from environment variable `$PATH` with access() in the parser)
- name of command
- envp

### Which informations does excuter need to get from parser?

- name of command
- the order of the command
- args of the command
- `|`, `||` or `&&`
- environmental variables

### How to handle the exit status?

the program returns the exit code of the **last process**.
We can get form the exit code from `waitpid` from the last process, and contain to the `$?`.
