# bash questions

---

## all

### zsh or bash?

bash?
We can set in the zshrc

	exec bash

### How to check the behavior of bash?

We need a test script with all test cases.
### How to test, how to compare the behavior of bash and minishell?

We can write in the test script, which will test with both and compare the result with `diff`.

---

## parser

### How should be the data structure?

Parser should prepare all data to use, excutor doesn't modify the data.

### Which parts should parser detect?

- commands
- command arguments
- redirections(`<` `>` `<<` `>>`) and pipes
- heredoc
- quotations (`''` `""` )
- environmental variables (`$`)

### Which parts does parser need?

- creating the data stracture
- separate the input and categorize
- heredoc
- wildcard
- set envp
- searching command path

### What is the difference between single and double quote?

If the string in `single quotes` has special character like `$`, the string will be read as written string, but `double quotes` the string will be expanded.  

```
echo '$PATH'
$PATH

echo "$PATH"
/home/username/bin:/user/local/sbin:/user...

```

### How should minishell behavio, if there is unclosed quotes? 

error message?

new prompt?

---
## redirection

### What is a redirection?

connecting standard input/output to the file.

	ls > list.txt

means `stdout` of the `ls` process will be redirected to the `list.txt`

	text.txt > wc -l

means `stdin` of the `wc` process will be redirected to the `text.txt`

### What is the behavior of `2>` and `2>&1` and should we handle these?

these handle redirection of `standard error output`.

	ls /xxxxx 2> error.txt

means `stderr` of the `ls` process will be redirected with `error.txt`,
and error message of `ls` will be written in the text file.

	ls /xxxx > result.txt 2>&1

`2>&1` means, `stderr` will be redirected to the same `fd` of `stdout`.

So this `job` means, `stdout` of `ls` process will be redirected to `result.txt`, and then `stderr` of `ls` will be redirected to the same 'fd', in this case `result.txt`.

The subject says:
>Implement redirections:
>
>- <
>- \>
>- <<
>- \>>

So we don't have to implement `2>` and `>&`,
**but the program shouldn't clash!!**

#### How should it behave then?
error message? or ignoring?


---
## excuter

### Which informations does excve() need?

- path of the command program (**full path**. We will search from environment variable `$PATH` with access() in the parser)
- name of command
- envp

### Which informations does excuter need to get from parser?

- name of command
- the order of the command
- args of the command
- `|`, `||` or `&&`
- environmental variables

### How to handle the exit status?

the program returns the exit code of the **last process**.
We can get form the exit code from `waitpid` from the last process, and contain to the `$?`.
