# Project's Requirement
## External function
readline, rl_on_new_line, rl_replace_line, rl_redisplay, add_history, printf, malloc, free, write, open, read, close, fork, wait, waitpid,wait3, wait4, signal, kill, exit, getcwd, chdir, stat, lstat, fstat, execve, 
dup, dup2, pipe, opendir, readdir, closedir, strerror, errno, isatty,ttyname, ttyslot, ioctl, getenv, tcsetattr, tcgetattr, tgetent, tgetflag,tgetnum, tgetstr, tgoto, tputs

## Makefile
Yes

## Libft autorized
Yes


## what we need to handle
### 1. prompt
- [ ] *display a prompt when waiting for a command*

### 2. history
- [ ] *have a working history*

### 3. executable
- [ ] *The shell should search for and execute the correct executable files (using the PATH environment variable and relative/absolute paths)*

### 4. one global variable
- [ ] *You can use one global variable, and it must have a reason for being used.*
	- think : where to use?
	- hint of the assignment: signal handler will not access your main data structures.

### 5. quotes
- [ ] *handle single quotes which prevents interpreting the meta-characters* 
	```bash
	echo '$PATH' #just literal string
	echo "$PATH" #handles value
	```

- [ ] *handle double quotes : it should just intepret $, no other meta characters*
	- (!) Double quotes allow for variable expansion and interpretation of certain special characters.
	-  (= Strings inside double quotes (except for `$`) should not be parsed.)
	- [ ] Environment variables following `$` should be expanded.


### 6. redirection
- [ ] \> : redirect output
  - Redirects output from a command to a file, overwriting the file if it exists.
  - Example: `echo "Hello" > output.txt` writes "Hello" to `output.txt`, replacing any existing content.


- [ ] \>> : same as >, but append
- [ ] < : redirect input
- [ ] << : here document
	- [ ] delimiter should be given
	- [ ] then, read until delimiter
	- [ ] it doesn't have to update the history
	- Takes user input, including line breaks, until the specified string on the right side of the operator (e.g., EOF) is encountered.
	- sends all the read input except the delimiter to the left program as standard input.
```bash
cat << EOF
> hello
> EOF

--result--
hello
```

! check the behavior of special cases:
- if there is redirection but no file

### 7. pipes
- [ ] command processes will be created at once.
- [ ] The exit code with pipe is form the last child.

### 8. env variables ($ with chars) + expander
- [ ] should expand to their values
- (!) These *env variables* should work
	- [ ] $ : variable
	- [ ] \$$ : pid of the shell
	- [ ] $? : last exit status of most recently executed foreground pipeline
	- [ ] $* : all arguments
	- [ ] $# : number of arguments
- example 
```bash
ls | grep "text"
echo $?  # This will print the exit status of the grep command
```

### 9. script control

- [ ] `ctrl-c`, `ctrl-d`, and `ctrl-\` should work the same way as in bash.
	- check : depending on the numbers of the processes
	- check : test cases
- [ ] In interactive mode, `ctrl-c`, `ctrl-d`, `ctrl-\` should behave as follows:
    - [ ] `ctrl-c` should clear the current line and show a new prompt.
    - [ ] `ctrl-d` should exit the shell.
    - [ ] `ctrl-\` should do nothing.

	- control+c : SIGINT
	- control+d : EOF
	- control+\ : SIGQUIT


### 10. builtins
| Command  | Description |
|----------|------------|
| [ ] `echo`   | Print text (supports `-n` option for no newline) |
| [ ] `cd`     | Change directory (absolute & relative paths) |
| [ ] `pwd`    | Print current working directory |
| [ ] `export` | Declare/update environment variables |
| [ ] `unset`  | Remove environment variables |
| [ ] `env`    | List all environment variables |
| [ ] `exit`   | Exit shell with a status code |


## what we should not handle
### 1. unclosed quotes or special characters
- [ ] don't interpret unclosed quotes
- [ ] don't interpret special characters like \ or ;

### 2. mem leak of readline()
- [ ] readlin() can cause mem leak, you don't need to fix

<br>
## bonus
- [ ] && and || with parenthesis for priorities
	- [ ] && : if it succeeds, then go ahead, otherwise stop
	- [ ] || : if the first one fails, then go ahead, otherwise stop
- [ ] wildcard should work in the current directory
	- [ ] * : match any string
	- [ ] ? : match any one character
	- [ ] [abc] : match any one character in the bracket
	- [ ] [a-z] : match any one character in the range

